it expands quite a lot yeah I know I'm
so the first thing what should I call
you buddy
Cohen okay that's the first thing Kevin
is I owe you an apology because I know
we were scheduled to talk on Friday and
then I kind of bumped because I had a
bunch of family in town and then we were
scheduled to talk at the top of the hour
but reckful wanted to come on and and it
actually sounded to me like what he was
talking about was maybe a little bit
relevant to what we were talking about
so I yeah I was close to crying it was
yeah yeah and so I'm sorry for you know
bumping you a couple of times and it's
fine it's really not but it's okay to
say it's not - so tell me a little bit
this but as you know from stream like we
kind of had you on last week kind of
impromptu so I try to do things a little
bit and prompt you from time to time and
sometimes people get the short end of
the stick for that so I'm sorry about
that that's totally fine I mean that um
so tell me a little bit about you know
why don't you fill in people because we
have 3500 people yeah why don't you want
to just help him a little bit about what
we talked about last week and kind of
you know what felt relevant to you we
talked a lot about pain versus suffering
the act of feeling pain and the act of
experiencing so yeah and a lot about
actually how then the nihilism the way
that Brecht fulfilled it versus how I
felt it was very comparable I feel what
was comparable about he also it felt
like he had a childhood trauma that
really shaped his his his reality for
yeah and and and that's completely the
same and to catch people up I almost
lost my father when I was 12 and that
really shaped how I felt about the world
and and we got around to me feeling that
the that experience was was me feeling
that nothing was worth anything because
when something can end in such a moment
that that shapes your life yeah
and and with the samskaara with the kid
getting bit and stuff like yeah so so
Kevin can we actually back up a little
bit because that's not actually what
where we started right where did we
start what did you first say to me you
had a question uh yeah my question was
how do you distinguish between the
feeling of wanting not wanting to die
but not not wanting to live yeah so so I
I personally feel that I don't want to
die but I really don't want yeah
beautiful and that was and what was it
that brought that on
do you remember what we talked about
first you jump into the punch line yeah
that was yeah I'm sorry that was my
girlfriend yeah and that shook up how my
expense expectations were of the future
and I feel like it has only gone worse
but what's gotten worse but that was
really the trigger I found out today
that she might be already seeing someone
else and I feel like like reflecting on
that I feel like the far I I had about
maybe trying to get it to work or in any
shape of form trying to get it to work
it might have been shattered now and and
I've I build all my expectations of
reality and and all my joy in in a life
with her yeah okay so we're gonna take
it we're gonna take a step back okay so
the first thing to understand is that so
my recollection Kevin from what we
talked about last time is that you know
you had said that you're not quite it's
not that you're suicidal and you want to
kill yourself but you just don't see
anything worth living in life it's that
life sort of lacks purpose or zest and
that fir yeah and go ahead and we we
actually talked about I actually had
been feeding that that like that before
I met her five years ago so that's a
that's a long time of a feeling that
that she was
the only thing worth living for
absolutely and I had that feeling before
that and the the feeling goes goes way
back into yeah my teenage so I think a
lot like reckful so so from what I
remember from our conversation you had
felt like you know life was purposeless
and then you met her and once you met
her then suddenly like you can start to
build a life you can start to move
forward because you can live with her
you guys are gonna get married you're
gonna have kids blah blah blah yadda
yadda maybe maybe not but that you can
sort of start to construct a life that
has purpose and meaning but the truth is
that that's actually not like a real
like purpose that's just a distraction
right and so you start to build this
life you kind of put all your eggs in
one basket and and that's I absolutely
and and then what happens is once you
break up then you feel like your life is
purposeless but the truth is that the
purposelessness began way before her so
what do you want to talk about today do
you want to talk about the origin of the
purposelessness do you want to talk
about the prospect of her like dealing
with sort of the feelings that she may
be dating someone again and what that
brings up for you because even if you
know that she's not really the root of
the problem it can be really hard to
shake all of the negative emotions yeah
I think I feel like especially today I
would have said talk about my past and
with my dad and stuff like that but but
the feeling I got today was quite
intense that talk about today buddy yep
have to strongly yeah yeah I found out
that she she was saying like we haven't
divided anything we've been living
together for three years so so so it's
quite a lot and I found out that that
she's been she was buddies with this one
guy while we were dating and now that
that we're not she's gotten too lonesome
some transportation card or whatever you
and I gonna find out essentially by
checking that not stalking I was just
checking to make sure it is system in
Denmark but that she was going to his
address it just showed him I thought it
was my card I have to so she could have
one when we were together and I found
out essentially that she's been going to
this guy and after we talked I kind of
tried to make my mind aware that that we
might not ever again be be together and
I I think the the little tried to make
your own aware of that or the mind
started thinking that automatically I
tried to make my mind figure that but
like a mom I'm still sleeping 20 hours
ok a day and and I'm still like not
eating and yeah and essentially that
shattered like before a hundred percent
of my life was trying to get this to
work and I tried to like put my mind
into the like I'm gonna try like 20
percent of it it has to
I thought makes made sense of trying to
get this work and maybe she needs time
and stuff like this but I feel like the
the chance has diminished so much that
yeah I think it gives me a sense of new
meaningless yeah so what is your okay so
let's just think about this for a second
so in the one hand it sounds like you
recognize that your your lack of purpose
has nothing to do with your relationship
yeah if you at the same time you've
built up the sense of purpose which your
mind has gotten used to right it's
become a part of you that you were
deriving a sense of purpose it was sort
of like you're you're thirsty and you're
moving through a desert and there's no
water anywhere and you find an oasis
which is her and she's giving you water
this relationship is keeping you alive
and then the relationship ends and then
suddenly you're back in the desert again
and not only that but you're thinking
maybe I can find that oasis again like
maybe if I put effort into it we can be
together again and then you find this
thing on the transportation card which
sort of tells you like oh like actually
like the Oasis is probably never gonna
be there
yeah like the chance is slim and I
really feel that the thought that I
might not ever find this oasis with
water again it's like I want to be with
her like logically and and I think she's
a kind sweet person I love her a lot of
obviously and but I think the only thing
that has given me any form of Drive
lately has been like she would come over
last week and divide some stuff and and
that was the first time I showered there
was the first time I ate it was the
first time I actually clean how do you
feel about that it makes me really sad
what's sad about that because I think
it's the fart of maybe never again
experiencing that the way she made me
feel like and be the prospect of a
family and the prospect of a family with
her I think the connection we made we
were both when we were sitting and
talking when we met last like we weren't
mad at each other we burned and we told
and we got the saying that maybe we
should have been friends before we
became before we got together and I
think yeah the prospect of going forward
without that really really hits me it's
you in what we're yeah I think it goes
back to feeling fulfilled being happy
okay so I think you've grown attached to
this relationship right which is normal
and we talked last time about how like
pain
you can't avoid pain a negative emotion
in life but attachment is what leads to
suffering
so it's expectation that leads to true
suffering yeah right it's like when I
when I'm opening a present and I think
it's gonna be a new iPhone and it turns
out to be an Android well I would
actually be happy but you know other
people but app apps and it's like when a
when a movie that you've heard
everything about you've heard everyone
says it's awesome it's awesome it's
awesome and it disappoints that's
because expectation is actually the real
devil but in your case I think there's
way more going on in sadness
so you're she made you feel a certain
way fine
is there grief that should happen over
the relationship absolutely but I think
that there's more than sadness dare are
you detecting any other emotions
hopelessness okay tell me about that we
talked last time about how everything I
did in my life was really revolved
around building this expectation like
building the like I I'm looking forward
to getting my degree so that we can have
more money and we can have we can go on
adventures together and the when I was
at school the only reason why I would
want to get through the day was to get
home to her and that feeling yeah yeah
sounds like you had really become
dependent on her to motivate you yeah
and most of the time I would skip school
just to relax with her and I think that
and I have a lot of guilt over over yeah
sorry someone messaged me um
I have a lot of guilt about me not
trying hard enough that's really I'm
very susceptible to the feeling of
failure and the feeling of missing out
that hits me really hard
why so that's absolutely so we're gonna
get to that because I think that's
actually the real problem so we're gonna
talk about this in a second okay
so tell me why do you think you're so
susceptible to the feeling of failure
that's a hard one yep I'm sorry my voice
is quivering I'm really trying really
hard to speak cleaned out the river
being Danish and it's okay the first
time I wanted to kill myself was five
and a half years ago and that was
because it was I was fulfilling the I
was trying to do an education that I
know my father would be proud of which I
really didn't want to do
although I think I've been saving this
acceptance of love from my father all
this time
yeah sounds like someone's been doing
some thinking over the last week I have
I've known these things for years I'm
aware of them but I have a really hard
time opening up about it
because he knew that I would cry now if
you'd like this how do you send this
fits like [ __ ] okay so you feel sad
right now what feels bad tell me every
time I cry it feels like physical
pencils in my head and in my chest and
yeah okay so we're gonna help you with
that physical pain for a moment there
and then we're gonna we're gonna talk
about the psychology of it okay
so the first thing that we're gonna do
that we're gonna try to calm you down a
little bit so sit up straight close your
eyes
we're gonna do another kind of
meditation so I'm gonna teach you
something called triphasic breathing
okay just sit up straight I want you to
close your eyes and I want you to try to
keep your chest still but as you inhale
move your abdomen so move your belly
push your belly out as you breathe in
and as you breathe out pull your belly
in breathe in
pull push the belly out as you breathe
out pull the belly in
so with each breath I want you to move
your bellybutton out and then in out and
then in so just do that for a moment
you
and now what I want you to do is when
you breathe in pull the so breathe in
with your belly first and then expand
your chest
there you go expand it out wide and then
breathe out and bring your belly in
again get that last bit of air out
beautiful and now one more breath and
then the last phase has raised your
shoulders pull your shoulders up up good
like that and then out so first the
belly
the chest and then the last little bit
is with the shoulders and then out
and one more breath
now just sit
eyes closed
feel your head
feel your chest
what do you feel
much Boko okay yeah
so Kevin point number one you got a stop
stop running away from the feelings
they're piling up they're overwhelming
you yeah the reason that you feel for
the business like you can't feel meaning
in life because any time so the place
that meaning comes from
is the same place that negative emotions
come from because remember this whole
point about Dharma is that Dharma gives
you purpose despite negative emotions
the problem is that you can't find
Therma because you're running away from
the negative emotions Dharma is the most
pure Dharma that you can find is when
negative emotions exist that's when you
find the real meaning of life right not
when you're like partying on and yacht
it's like when you're in a concentration
camp or you're like Martin Luther King
giving a speech about civil rights or
you're like trying to like save the
world like when you're trying to save
another human being when you're in the
operating room and you're performing
surgery and you're tired and you're
sweaty and you're afraid that they're
gonna die like that's when you find your
meaning the biggest problem that so many
people have is that you run away from
your negative emotions you're so afraid
of the way that they make you feel that
you can't go to the place where you're
gonna find the purpose
the first thing that we've got to help
you do is to face those negative
emotions sit with them breathe through
them and accept them because your
problem isn't sadness your problem isn't
an empty life your problem is fear
your problem is that you've been living
a life like you don't have purpose in
your life because you haven't been
living for yourself for decades you
stopped living for yourself a long time
ago so no wonder you can't find purpose
because you like you've forgotten you
never learn how to live for yourself
he's started by living for your dad and
then you started by living for your
girlfriend so you move from person to
person to person that can give you
meaning you pick a career that would
make your dad happy instead of one that
would make you happy so it's like you've
leveled up like living for others and
like your ability to live for yourself
has become completely buried and why is
it completely buried because anytime you
think about your life like sure your
girlfriend made you happy but the real
problem is here is that somewhere along
the way you never learned or you forgot
that you can be happy with other people
that you can be happy on your own that
you actually don't need another human
being to make you happy but you never
learned that so we've got it this this
is a problem of uncertainty about the
future the reason you're so attached to
this oasis is because you don't have
faith that if you trek out into the
desert you won't find water
that's the problem it's about fear
sure you feel sad like I think anyone
who has a breakup is gonna feel sad I
don't think that those feelings are bad
no and and I I connect I feel like I can
separate those feelings and and I really
know how you mean because I think for
the last almost two weeks now I've been
like I can't have have quiet quietness I
always have to have things if it's in my
headphones or when I'm lying in bed like
90% of the time I have to get my iPad
and and have something going like a
stream yeah oh yeah and I fall asleep
absolutely so this is the thing right
now your head is a terrifying place you
cannot face what is going on in your
head it's overwhelming
I've described it yeah I've tried to use
art at one point to describe it to to my
little girlfriend and when I just
described it to her it was like all the
negative things I have it's like a
pandora's but absolutely sitting in a
basement and I'm even too afraid to even
enter the person you have to try and I
know I mean I sort of know how you feel
cuz I was in the same place so when I
was like failing out of college like I'm
the child of two doctors and everyone in
order like social circle is like very
accomplished and all that kind of good
stuff
and so like I knew I was failing at life
and I felt so ashamed and I knew I was
[ __ ] up and I could do nothing to
stop it and every day that went by I
[ __ ] it up more and I [ __ ] it up
more and I [ __ ] it up more and I was
just like on this like downward spiral
and I couldn't stop it and so the only
thing that gave me relief is that I
would play video games until I was so
exhausted that I would just pass out no
time for my mind to think the scariest
time was when I laid was when I was
laying in bed and I could not distract
myself because all of that shame in that
negativity would come boiling up
but here's the thing Kevin you think
it's scary down there and it absolutely
is scary but that's not gonna destroy
you
it can't destroy you I don't believe it
can destroy you you're afraid of it
because you don't know what's down there
right so fear understand this Kevin fear
lives off of a lack of information the
less we know the more afraid we are
right like if I'm a six year old kid and
I'm afraid there's a monster in the
closet do you know is that door open or
closed when I'm afraid there's a monster
in there it's always absolutely
absolutely right and why is that okay
because it's finger scary yeah and what
happens if the door opens you're afraid
of what's good yeah but what happens
after the door opens so like let's say
that I have a six-year-old kid and the
kid is afraid that there's a monster in
the closet and then I'm the parent and I
walk in and I open the door what does
the kid do and then do they stay scared
once the doors open I said no they can't
they learn that yeah they learned that
so it's an absolutely traumatic when I
reach my door when I reach to open the
door handle absolutely the kid is gonna
freak the [ __ ] out they're like no no
don't open it don't open it don't open
it don't open it and they're tear
they're terrified and then I open the
door and there's nothing back there now
in your case there's something in the
basement but you've got to understand
this fear thrives off of a lack of
information it can only exist in
hypotheticals fear is not about reality
it is about the hypothetical
yeah that's the only thing I've been
thinking about all day it's the
hypotheticals yes trying to use I'm
crazy to like what if she just went
there to get somewhere so forget you
need to stop living in hypotheticals
yeah and and really start living with
where you are and the beautiful thing is
that like so I want you to understand is
when you push the emotions away that's a
hypothetical - that's not a reality
you're keeping the emotions in the
hypothetical zone because you're not
living them as you start to live like
how bad was it to cry Kevin just now
both good and bad I'm actually crying
right now when you were so like news
flash you step down into the basement
and you survived so this is the big
lesson that you somehow have not learned
is that you are [ __ ] indestructible
like you just don't know that and like
here you're doing it you're crying in
front of 2458 people right now I was
afraid it was still funny yeah thanks I
don't have this three-month on purpose
yeah right it's hard enough to cry by
yourself there crying in front of like
2500 people and like hey guess what
you're still here and I think the really
hard part about thinking about this
breakup was that that I am going to live
and I think maybe even more that I might
reach a day where she isn't a part of
this and where I'm with someone else and
I'm I invested these five years into
something that might be like gone
forever
the thing about something being
permanently gone because of something I
may have done it's world reg yes to me
so this is because you're arrogant
you're so arrogant you believe you have
the power to control that relationship
where do you get the nerve believing
that if you did things differently that
relationship would still be alive that
is the depth of arrogance you need to
understand that in this world you only
are entitled to what you do you are not
entitled to what happens there is
incredible freedom in this that you
don't get to control what happens in
that relationship that's your problem
your problem is arrogance that if you
had done this if you had done this if
you had done this or even today if you
do this tomorrow if you do this tomorrow
that you can repair that relationship
the relationship is not yours to control
it's just not the faster you accept that
the faster you can try you can try to be
civil you can try to tell her hey I want
to get back together but that's all
you're entitled to you're not actually
entitled to the relationship and the
other thing is that I I do think that
you know you'll have invested five years
into this relationship and it could end
and that may seem like a waste but I can
tell you that I don't think it's a waste
because I think that the lessons we
learn in life are invaluable
so I started medical school at the age
of 27 which is like one year after most
of my friends from college graduated so
when they were graduating I hadn't even
been accepted yet and it was like
incredibly shaming and so I think like
oh I like wasted five years of my life
no like did I like waste five years of
my life yes and it's made me the person
that I am today and I need it to waste
those five years of my life because now
I can get on Twitch and I can talk to
people like you because you feel like
you've wasted five years and is it a
waste yeah but it's also like it's
making you the person that you are and
you have to live you have to live like
where you are you can't live in a
hypothetical world like you have to you
have to play the character that you
roles right like once you make a
character like that's the character and
if you like screw up and you wipe you
have to like you have to start like you
have to respawn and then you gotta like
play from where you respawned you just
doesn't matter like you can't you can
get upset about wiping as much as you
want but like you got to play like if
you respawn you respawn and then you
zone back in and then you try to take
down whatever raid boss like you try
again
the problem is that you don't like
you're in the process of respawning and
you don't like you don't think that you
you just think you get one shot but you
don't you get many shots that's what's
cool that life is you actually get to
keep trying until you die yeah and I
think I've been overthinking this
because every time I I think about this
I I think about but what what I what am
I going to tell her how am I going to
tell her what words would I use to make
the the outcome fail maybe getting here
yeah to try again and stuff like that
but what makes the highest percentage of
success so I want you to notice Kevin
that that thing is like a little like
parasite in your mind that there's a
part of your mind that's because I know
from acting absolutely and it does from
acting how I how my true self really
wants to act there you go so heaven
you're doing it because you just [ __ ]
figured out that you have a true self
that's beautiful right now that you see
that that thing is trying to hold on to
this false sense like the second you
begin to realize that you have a true
self and you're already realizing it so
this is the cool thing about yawn so
yawn is the Sun is one of the Sun script
words for knowledge which means
understanding you can't shake
understanding once you understand
something you can't understand it once
you understand that two plus two equals
four then you always understand that two
plus two equals four you can forget but
you can't stop understanding once you
know what a strawberry tastes like once
you know what cheese tastes like once
you know what it's like to take a hot
shower once you know what it's like to
take a cold shower experience cannot be
taken away from you and your salvation
lies in the fact that you started to
discover that there is a true self under
there I don't know how you found it but
you know that something is not your true
self and that gives me hope yeah because
you used to think that the the part of
you that craved a relationship with her
that needed a relationship with her was
your true self but what if I feel like
that still
that maybe becomes what I want what
becomes what you want but I have a I
have a hard time like coding those two
feelings away from each other because I
think it's it's so melded together I
know that I have so a true self and a
way that I would act without thinking
but if I would like tell you how I feel
without thinking I would still feel that
I would want this to work the best way
possible
so trying yeah so I want you to
understand that that's actually not like
that's a part of you right so your
desire to have her be a part of your
life again is very real and that you've
grown attached to that right like that's
what happens you've grown attached and
so like detachment can be a painful
process and it's fine to want to be with
her and just recognize those thoughts
recognize that there's a part of you
that that no matter what you do or what
you think or how much you grow there's a
part of you that's always gonna want to
want to try to control her and
manipulate her into getting back with
you yeah and and that's the really hard
part because how do i how do I try to
get her back without essentially as you
say manipulating her because I don't
want her to be sad I don't want her to
actually be in a relationship that that
doesn't fulfill her either way I love
her very much and that's I mean that in
a very deep way so I don't want to
influence her in any way that would make
her life less see yeah so that's
conflict right because there's a part of
you that's saying if she can be happy
with someone else I want that for her
because I love her and there's a part of
you that's saying oh hell no I wanted to
be with me so the first thing to
understand is that there are these two
warring parts of you that one of them is
attachment and one of them is love those
are two different things and they
oftentimes get confused attachment and
love but what and those conflict when I
and this is a very I don't I hope I
don't get too much hate for saying that
but
I truly think that she could be happy
with of course so let's be clear the
part of you that is attached is not
wrong it's not incorrect
it's just attached of course she could
be happy with you that's not incorrect
so the way that we defeat that part
actually we don't defeat it but the way
that we don't defeat it by proving it
wrong which you can try to do so
sometimes when you have a war within
your mind like you try to fight against
yourself and that's exhausting so this
is what you need to do I want you to
pretend so let me ask you this you lost
your dad I didn't do some I was close to
losing him and I've been close to losing
him two more times after that so the
part of you that is afraid of losing her
does that feel but I can does that kind
of give you an example my um my
grandfather was essentially my second
dad because if because my father was a
little bit absent and I lost him some
years ago so we can use that so when you
think about losing her does it feel like
the same do you feel like you're 12
years old again and your dad is sick
yeah it actually feels very much the
same it feels like my whole life is over
so that's the Sam Scottie I I feel I
feel a very strong feeling of panic we
we were scheduled to actually see each
other today and when she called me and
said she were sick that and that I could
I've known her for five years she wasn't
sick that made me panic very much
because now I'd lost my chance too so so
this is important okay so I'm gonna just
type this out in chat first
so the some scar gets activated when you
were about to lose someone where there's
a prospect of losing someone so I want
you to understand this very carefully if
you actually lose her at some point
then you're gonna feel fine like you'll
feel sad but the some scar won't be
active so thing is you guys have broken
up but you don't feel like you've lost
her right you actually feel like
well so do you see I feel like this yeah
so as long as that that's the feeling
with your dad because you didn't
actually lose your dad so the fear is
about the possibility of loss in your
mind is actually in the place where
there's a possibility of loss you feel
like there's still hope in the
relationship
that's the some scar the weird thing is
like it's sort of like if you get bit by
a dog and you walk down the street and
you see a cat you don't feel scared so
once you know that the relationship is
finally over the some scar is actually
going to deactivate in a bizarre way and
you'll feel better because then it's not
the same situation it's not it's the
possibility of loss that you're the most
scared of so what do you do about this
the first thing is you got to stop
fighting
that doesn't mean give in I want you to
pretend so how old are you now Kevin ok
26 so I want you to pretend that there's
a 12 year old you and there's a 26 year
old view and the 12 year old you is
terrified of losing your dad so imagine
you're you're your own older brother
what would you do with the 12 year old I
have no idea yes that's the problem
right because you don't know how to
comfort that that person you don't know
how to help that person that person
doesn't need to be proven they're wrong
that person needs like compassion and
help you need reassurance you need
someone to say hey buddy
like sure this person may pass away or
this relationship may end but I have
faith in you and I'm gonna be with you
and we're gonna figure this out together
that's what you need to learn how to
tell yourself right that loss can happen
and it's scary and it's not what you
want and I'm not saying it's fair I'm
not saying it's Pleasant it's gonna be
shitty but it doesn't have to destroy
do you believe it's going to destroy you
logically no but it feels like it it
feels like I only have like one month to
live so understand that you're you're
allowed to feel that way
you're absolutely allowed to feel that
way right and you don't have to argue
against it
because that's how you feel and as best
as you can
like just pause and try to find that
Center so I think you should meditate
you have a way that you can learn
meditation like TrueView - yeah I want
you to go something I don't know you
have a yoga class that you can go to no
no I'm a poor student I don't I can't
really buy anything thank you Jim have a
yoga yeah so look into that they might
have so the other thing that I want to
explain to you and everyone who's
watching is that so men especially feel
like emotions in their body like they
don't understand mentally like what
emotion they're feeling but they
certainly feel it in their body and the
example that I like to give is like you
know when someone gets like when I get
dumped by my girlfriend I don't know
what I'm feeling like I don't know how
to say like I'm afraid that I'm never
gonna find love again like that's not
what you tell your friends you say like
oh yeah man she hit me and like she
kicked me in the nuts like that's what
you say and like everyone understands
that you mean you guys under all
understand what that means you don't
understand like what that is emotionally
but you understand it physically like
that's how it feels so what you need to
do is work on your body so if you have
the option to see a therapist or
something like that I definitely think
you should do that especially if you've
been I have a yeah already have a time
actually I don't have time it's the
other thing you need to do is understand
that emotional processing for you if you
want to if you want to clean out the
basement without ever going down there
you must use your body yoga tai chi is
best exercise is good but apparently
yoga and Tai Chi is better
so it science us so as you start to move
your body you're gonna feel that
tightness and then like just like we did
today is you breathe into the tightness
it starts to feel better and that's not
suppression that's not forgetting that's
not distraction that's you actually
sitting with and feeling and processing
your emotions you're doing it physically
which is really cool that you can do
that because the body and the mind are
connected and if you feel mentally
bummed out up here your energy level is
gonna drop and if you use caffeine
you're gonna feel activated up here body
and mind are connected and you need to
use them both so I think therapy is good
I think Yoga is good do Surya Namaskar
the Sun Salutation I'm gonna type it in
chat okay yes you are while DM YouTube
chi gong is good too Qi Gong is like
brown I am so Brown I am and Qi Gong as
well as asan and Tai Chi it's a sequence
of yoga poses if you do three Surya
Namaskar Xin the morning and three Surya
Namaskar before you go to bed I think
you're gonna feel way better oh sorry I
said if you feel like if you do three in
the morning three rounds of Surya
Namaskar in the morning and three rounds
of Surya Namaskar at night you're gonna
feel better can you get all messy I'll
do okay all right
because I don't okay sure cool so
questions Kevin like one thing I have is
is more practical now because I know we
reached very much the core of the
problem but when I'm these passages we
gonna have been sleeping 20 20 hours out
of 24 and I haven't been outside much
and yeah even eating I've lost 15 pounds
in this time
the only question I really have is how
practical like practically to do stuff
how can i hack it because I also feel
like if I like one reasoning I have
between this and I'm thinking clearly
how I want if I were to get her back was
that I have to be in another place I
have to be good like yeah I have to get
better and and and also for myself like
that it's not just for that relationship
but I have to get better so I don't know
how to to get know so so I think that
sometimes human beings forget that we're
communal animals and we try to do
everything ourselves
so in sanskrit there's a word called
Sangha Sangha means community and Sangha
is critical for success in meditative or
spiritual practice so I think the
problem like the simplest way is that
you have to figure out do you have any
kind of community that you can engage
with I actually don't only have my
family I moved to this town because of
her okay yeah and I have a few few
friend okay so a couple of things the
first is you know so part of what we do
like part like so I stream but then we
also do a lot of other stuff with
healthy gamer so one of those things is
we're training a group of recovery
coaches and you guys can sign up at
healthy game or gg so I think that like
you should maybe think about joining
some of our groups and stuff and then
like start talking to people working
with people who are sharing like similar
problems that you guys that you have and
you guys help each other the other thing
is you've got to find community because
you're not it's like really hard neuro
scientifically and behaviorally to just
like turn your life around
so I think it's good that you're going
to the doctor like you you're in your
student right so there are people in the
class
I'm just about to graduate and I
actually have lit ru and I don't have
any anyone around me okay so like are
you gonna get a job I hope so what's
that process looking like it looks very
hard right now or it looks I can't find
the the word in in English
it looks exhausting to actually do that
process and yeah and I'm not looking for
ya so I'm glad that you're seeing a
doctor tomorrow because you actually
sound like you're clinically depressed
how long have you been feeling this way
did you say clinically depressed it cut
out yeah yeah this way yeah all my life
I would say but that how long have been
sleeping 20 hours of the other got sick
if my girlfriend permitted it I would
have slept 20 hours a day
most of our relationship yeah so I think
definitely get an evaluation and I mean
I I don't know I mean I think you've got
to find something to do right so I don't
know like what you're interested in and
it sounds like you're you're graduating
and so I don't know if you guys have job
fairs or things like that but like I
think you've got to find a community
because the community is what's gonna
help you out when you're in your darkest
time like when I went to the ashram sure
I did a lot of yoga and meditation but
there were other people there that were
also doing yoga and meditation or try to
figure out who they were and what's
going on in their life yeah so if you go
to the gym and like they do a yoga class
like you should go every week because
you're gonna be meet people and then one
day one of them is gonna be like hey do
you want to go grab a coffee or
something
fine and I absolutely it's actually
going it's funny that they after we
talked I had this and it's funny but now
that we listen to Rachel and I listen to
you about saying that you want to help
as many people as possible
I had the very intense feeling of I
wanted to do this school what's the call
when you come up and speak to people in
like like a motivational speaker I'm
losing her
not motivational speaker but but a a
person who like visits to school to talk
about the people who have had these
problems and maybe trying good help yeah
I had a very intense feeling of that
that they have so I think that's that's
the how Dharma is born right when you
start recognizing that like the reason
you can sleep 20 hours a day because the
is it because the only person you're
screwing over is yourself and yeah I'm
so much that's the person we don't value
yourself yeah so I think therapy will
help with that and I think you you know
having someone else in your life like
that that you're beholden to is really
important like it's 9:20 I've been in my
office on a Sunday since 3 o'clock and
why is that like this is not how I want
to spend my Sunday I mean it is but it's
you know this is my day off I know what
your main like right so I get like two
days off and I work a lot that week and
and this is what keeps us going this is
what allows us to tolerate suffering and
so I think you should absolutely find
your Dharma but it starts with little
things so I'd say like go to the gym and
see what kind of classes like it doesn't
even matter if they don't have yoga
classes go to a class in or interact
with other human beings and expand your
orbit because as human beings we're
wired to like do things and care about
things that other people care about like
that's what peer pressure is when
everyone at school when you're 15 and
everyone has like a certain backpack or
certain kind of jeans that's what you
want so your problem is that your peer
pressure you know who you know what peer
pressure means like where are you
getting peer pressure from no no correct
from from the people around me but
riding on you around right now right now
I'm probably being around people in your
life who are your peers it's kind of a
trick question
yeah you're around yourself you're your
peer you're in your head you have
multiple versions of you you talk to
yourself all the time so all of the
things that don't so much
so like the hot new jeans at your school
is your girlfriend that's the only thing
that matters because that's the all the
people in your head all of the different
versions of you the part that would be
that's sad the part of you that's
fearful the part of you that wants to
control the part of you that's hungry
for a better life all of those people
they all want one thing and that's her
so you've got to spend time around other
people you guys have to understand that
your head is not like monolithic your
mind is not one thing your mind is like
a whole host of different voices and
desires and feelings and logic and
rationality and emotions and that they
all fight against each other for
supremacy habits wanting to play video
games wanting to eat certain kinds of
food wanting to eat other kinds of food
wanting to change wanting to say it's
stay the same your mind is a whole
Orchestra of different people the
problem is that all of your peer
pressure just makes you value her so
you've got a you've got to find other
peers because when you're with a bunch
of yoga people like they're gonna all
care about like self development and
growth and being spiritual and not
polluting the earth and all that kind of
crap like you like your brain is just
wired to care about that stuff if you
hang around with other people who care
about that stuff so you got to just
spend time with other people I don't
care how you do it like you're a smart
guy like I'm sure you can find something
Jim is a great place to start so go to a
class can be CrossFit it can be like
Zumba it can be yoga can be Gemini got
whatever and then as you start applying
for jobs like see if there are career
events like if there are job fairs or
things like that make a resume and start
going to places like ask your counselors
or whatever your resources are and like
find yourself a [ __ ] job because
being depressed is bad being lonely as
bad being dumped as bad
all of those things and a broke is horse
yeah okay and the last thing is that
Julius Kevin I don't think you're a
piece of [ __ ] man I don't think that
you're a waste of space
and I I don't think that your life is
hopeless and I think that that the
biggest problem the reason that you feel
that way is because you actually don't
understand who you are is because the
version of you that exists is the one
that you discovered when you lived your
life based on other people so the only
you that you know is actually not the
real you
yeah questions maybe that's why I yeah
maybe that's why I have to have
something running all the time because
then I have it there's a chance of
hearing my own thoughts because you
think your thoughts are scary but you've
got it they're not that I mean they're
gonna be bad don't get me wrong and
sometimes if you do feel suicidal or
something like that you should go talk
to someone
yeah I've talked to a hotline and I know
where I can go if if I'm there so yeah
yeah questions for me buddy yeah I'm
feeling overwhelmed I don't think
there's nothing pretty good racing yeah
so you're gonna feel overwhelmed because
the amount of transformation so let me
tell you why you feel overwhelmed you're
at the base of Mount Everest and you're
looking up to the top and you're saying
wow that is a really far away to climb
and you know what you're right and you
should feel overwhelmed but whether
you're climbing a mountain that's thirty
thousand feet high twenty thousand feet
high or 300 feet high how do you climb
that mountain
once the all you can do right now you
can't meditate for 10 years you can't be
sober for 10 years you can't be in a
10-year relationship you can only
meditate today you can only work out
today you can only eat today you can
only apply to one job today you can only
ask a girl out today that's all you can
do
the rest is up to I don't know God Locke
entropy karma whatever you want it to be
as a human being you only control what
you do you don't control what happens
and the more that you recognize that the
more free you will be and the more chill
you will be and the more your life will
start to turn around now so
goodnight my friends in twitch chat good
luck
[Music]
Thank You spunk and thanks for being
patient
of course it's so you you're making such
a immense difference and just listening
to this would very cool I was lucky
enough to get on after him but just
being witness to it was actually also
very good I think that the you teach and
the outreach is well that's what right
here for buddy
so you're most welcome good luck and
stay in touch okay come back on stream
let us know like be a success yes this
is actually this is really important
Kevin so they're gonna be there a couple
thousand people watching this stream and
like they need to see you and they need
to see you not [ __ ] up because right now
you have the option to like [ __ ] up your
life over the next couple of months or
start to build something
and like if you [ __ ] it up then that's
not going to be anything to them but I
there are people in twitch chat' I mean
you can go back and watch the vaad a lot
of people relate to some of the things
that you're feeling which is what stream
is about you related direct 'fl we all
relate to each other we're all kind of
like in the same boat right myself
included yeah and so I inspire people
because I got my [ __ ] together and you
can too and that's your Dharma so people
need to see you because they're gonna
say like oh this guy is like I'm like
that guy's so [ __ ] pathetic like if
he can do it I should be able to do it
or you can be inspirational and they can
say like if he can do it I can do it
that guy's legit so you really haven't
Hermit to them you guys all have a
responsibility to each other right and
as is twitch chat' saying go Kevin go
they're rooting for you so don't let him
down don't let us down it's a bad idea
to live for your dad it's a bad idea to
live for your girlfriend but it's a good
idea to live for twitch at twitch at if
you can't let myself that's what we
learn today I see quick chat yeah go
Kevin go
I'll make sure that's it's you got this
calendar nice you got this right alright
take care so much and thank you thank
you to everyone yeah chanting lives here
yeah
right when when there's development okay
right if there isn't development there's
value in that too all right
so don't write based on what happens
development is happening right based on
your actions don't tell me what's
happened that's the wrong way to think
Kevin right based on what you've done or
the actions you've taken I still don't
have a job but I applied to 50 that's
what I want to hear not I got a job I
don't [ __ ] care if you I mean I do
care get a job but that's not the
important the important thing why okay
all right yeah take care
thank you so much you too